README.md, before:

Created By Sarah Ilyas		
	
Explore US Bikeshare Data 

### Description
This project uses python to analyze U.S bikeshare data for 3 major cities in the U.S, namely, Chicago, NYC and Washington.
The script takes in the user's  input to create a user friendly and  interactive experience. By virtue of Python code and imported data sets, descriptive statics were calculated. 
The developed program enables  the user to explore the US bikeshare system database and acquire  statistics from the datasets. It Is possible to  filter the information by city, month and weekday and thus visualize statistics related to a particular subset of data. 
In order to fulfill the requirements of this project, the following tools were used:

Python
Atom ( text editor)
Git Bash
Files Used
The required files for running this program are:
•	washington.csv
•	new_york_city.csv
•	chicago.csv

The following questions were answered for the user once the necessary input data was entered by the user:

Which month occurs most often in the start time?
Which day of the week occurs most often in the start time?
What hour of the day occurs most often in the start time?
What is the total trip duration and average trip duration?
What is the most frequently used start station and most frequently used end station?
What is the most common trip (i.e., the combination of start station and end station that occurs the most often)?
What are the counts of each user type?
What are the counts of gender?
What is the earliest birth year, most recent birth year, and most common birth year?



### Credits
I consulted the following repository while conducting due research for this project
https://github.com/ozlerhakan/bikeshare/blob/master/bikeshare.py

Commit message:

Display what the user interactive screen shows

README.md, after:

	
	
Explore US Bikeshare Data 

### Description
This project uses python to analyze U.S bikeshare data for 3 major cities in the U.S, namely, Chicago, NYC and Washington.
The script takes in the user's  input to create a user friendly and  interactive experience. By virtue of Python code and imported data sets, descriptive statics were calculated. 
The developed program enables  the user to explore the US bikeshare system database and acquire  statistics from the datasets. It Is possible to  filter the information by city, month and weekday and thus visualize statistics related to a particular subset of data. 
In order to fulfill the requirements of this project, the following tools were used:

Python
Atom ( text editor)
Git Bash
Files Used
The required files for running this program are:
•	washington.csv
•	new_york_city.csv
•	chicago.csv

The following questions were answered for the user once the necessary input data was entered by the user:

Which month occurs most often in the start time?
Which day of the week occurs most often in the start time?
What hour of the day occurs most often in the start time?
What is the total trip duration and average trip duration?
What is the most frequently used start station and most frequently used end station?
What is the most common trip (i.e., the combination of start station and end station that occurs the most often)?
What are the counts of each user type?
What are the counts of gender?
What is the earliest birth year, most recent birth year, and most common birth year?

A case in point of the user interactive screen 
 


### Credits
I consulted the following repository while conducting due research for this project
https://github.com/ozlerhakan/bikeshare/blob/master/bikeshare.py
